====== Kristen ======

There was this girl named Kristen, and when I was in the 2nd grade, I was in Mrs. Phillips class. She was a math teacher. I guess that's what kids these days call a home room. Right? I remember, she liked me a lot and took to me especially, but I drove her crazy. I was always up her ass about something, always raising my hand, always asking questions, and I could never stop moving. Ever. 
This is on medication. I think everybody knew when I was little, in retrospect, that I was different from everybody else, because I had to go to the nurse twice a day, at the same time every day, to take my medication. And I would often feel nauseous afterwards. It was one of those things as the strong drugs take hold that it just makes you quiet all of a a sudden and not quite so hyperactive. The change was like night and day. 
I can remember this happening for as long as my memories go back. I think my first memory was when I was 5 years of age and I was put on this medication as well as my brother. Keep in mind, this much before I had gone to school, or just in the very earliest days. 
I always knew that I was different from everyone else, and Kristen was different too. But different in a superior way to me, she was organized. She was on time. She always knew the answer. She only raised her hand sometimes when she knew the answer. She got the same grades as me, and sat right next to me, and I drove her crazy too. 
I think was sometime around the time that the third or fourth week of Mrs. Phillips class, and I had started to struggle. My desk and my backpack were a mess. I could never get things prepared in time, and then Mrs. Phillips came over, and she didn't mean to embarass me but she did, and asked Kristen to help. 
Which Kristen, did, thankfully. 
And this continued for the rest of the school year. If I got a little too out of whack, Kristen would bop me right back in place. She could totally raid my desk any time she wanted, and I had to be okay with it. Naturally, I was offended at first, and then I also felt bad, and then I also felt like she would hate me because the teacher made her clean my desk, but she never did. She was the prettiest brown skinned girl in the whole school. She had the longest curliest black hair, dark black eyes, and spoke softly and intelligently and sweetly, there was no unkindness about her. Whatsoever. 
Anyway. That's Kristen.  I left John G. Tower Elementary School in Burkburnett, Texas when it was 1999 and my dad got orders to PCS to Maxwell AFB in Montgomery, Alabama. And that is a whole other story.
