====== Appeal Letter 12/20/2020 ======

Alexander AlvonellosDecember 17, 20202510 Monterey ParkwayAtlanta, GA 30350(678) 294-7611
Personal Appeal Statement
Dear Academic Standards Committee Review Board:
  I am writing this letter today to explain who I am, what happened, and what is different today, in the hope that I will be re-admitted to the university and finally be able to achieve my dream by walking across the stage. 
  Firstly, a little about me: I am Alexander Alvonellos, and I am now 29 years old. I live and work in north Atlanta and after changing my job and life circumstances about four years ago now, I have enjoyed much success. I’ve continuously held a job and done well in my career, and at this point I have developed a 10 year-long career as an IT Support technician. 
  Unfortunately, however, this letter is not about illuminating my successes, but rather my failures and how I overcame. A year ago I attended the graduation of one of my closest friends and there was a speech given by a student who said “rock bottom will teach you more about life than the highest mountain top” and I found this certainly true in my case, and it planted a seed that I wanted to be him and I wanted to finish also. Despite my circumstances previously, I know I can succeed now. 
  As far as what happened, I think I was a complete and abject failure in my early 20’s in general, and the woes of life made things worse. It was a time within which I bore much suffering and strafe and eventually succumbed and just gave up. In general, it has taken me a few years away to reflect, take ownership of my mistakes, realize the reasons for my failures and my successes, and a whole lot of maturity to be able to begin correcting course. After much reflection, I think my problems were caused by three distinct categories of issues, all of which I have been able to address in due time since. It was not until I hit my rock bottom that I learned a little about life.
  First and foremost, I was a raging alcoholic who also suffered with depression and ADHD. I was medicated for these things at the time and I had issues with said medication itself. The truth is, no matter how much medication one takes, if coupled with alcohol and an overarchingly poor lifestyle, a sugar pill will help about as much as than even the strongest medication. I had a lot of traumas in the incredibly early years of my life and my chosen method to cope with them, like many others, was to drink and otherwise abuse substances. It started noticeably young, around 11 or 12 years old, and only got worse as I got older. Today, I am a much different person. This is a problem I have solved and have recovered from, thankfully. I have been sober nearly two years now, and I am much more responsible in my sobriety now than ever before. I even went through a 12-step program, and now I help other people get sober, too. Back then, I thought it could have never been me. Things change. Before I was embarrassed, now I am proud. 
  Secondly, I had so many various life circumstances going on back then within which I did not have the prerequisite maturity and life experience to cope. Almost every semester I was at Mercer, with very few exceptions, something was happening which meant that was something for me to cope poorly. In fact, looking through my transcripts, the only semesters I had no issues were Summer of 2010, Fall of 2010, Fall of 2013, and Summer of 2015. That is four terms only, but I’ll give you a hint: I was more or less sober for all of them, I had a steady and happy home-life, and nothing else happened. For the remainder of my college terms, there is a whole laundry list of major things that happened: All the personal circumstances affecting me in my personal life and thusly in school are now gone. In a few points: 

  My older brother who drunkenly beat me senseless in 2011 so many years ago was no longer a part of my life and has been homeless off and on for nearly ten years now. He came to Atlanta last year and in my sobriety, I helped him get sober also because I had the answer to issues that plague people for 10 years, having gone through that experience myself. Having worked with other alcoholics as part of my 12 step program, I knew where to point him to cure the family illness. After starting to put my life back together, watching the magic happen, I have found a newfound passion for helping others fix their broken lives through sponsorship. 
  All those car accidents that I had in 2012 and 2013, no fault of my own, which caused problems with me doing well in school are over. The injuries made it difficult to concentrate, as if I did not have enough help already, and not having a car made it difficult to get to class for a whole year. I got help for that and have treated those injuries a long time ago.
  I was in a toxic relationship for a long time. On more than one dimension we were not compatible. We did not find that out until later. I was an alcoholic, she had her issues, we had many miscarriages (thank goodness we did not have children) and our lives fell apart after I left Mercer. We divorced July 2017, after being separated over a year to "find ourselves.” 
  She found herself with another man, and so did I. After hiding my head in shame for an awfully long time, I decided ‘no more’ and came out. I was not allowed to love who I wanted to love back then, but now the world is a different place. It took me coming to a major city to overcome my conservative upbringing and my personal hang-ups with being an out homosexual. I met my husband two years ago and married recently, despite COVID, and have been happy ever sense. 
  I had a lot of trouble with my mom being in and out of the hospital, and I cannot count how many nights I spent at the hospital with my mother. It was a heart wrenching thing to go through, but she had COPD and congestive heart failure at the same time and many medical issues. Sadly, she is no longer an element in my life. She passed December 5, 2017. She suffered a hypoxic brain injury after not breathing for an extended period due to COPD and congestive heart failure. Her body was revived, but her brain was gone. It was against her wishes to be on life support on a permanent basis (tracheotomy). I signed the papers taking her off life support after a week of her not "waking up." It was one of the toughest things I have ever had to do. 
  The chronic drinking and substance abuse, which was my chosen method to cope with all the trauma from her death, a failed marriage, an overwhelming debt burden, lost children of my own, and the trauma from childhood abuse (physical, emotional, sexual) is not a factor anymore either. As I said earlier, I am in recovery and have been sober close to two years now. I see a therapist and work closely with doctors to manage my chronic depression and mental health issues that have been plaguing me for a long time. After a lot of time, a lot of therapy, and a lot of self-discovery I am much better. My personal mantra as become “better for being broken.”
  The problems with my remaining family are not so much of a factor anymore. I had made some poor life decisions in my intoxicated state and had to learn to stand on my own for a long time, until they saw real change and responsibility. Now, I have become not just a person they can tolerate, but a person they can look up to as a shining example of how much a person can change for the better.  Actually, after my mother died, a lot changed and my whole family re-structured for the better. My father re-married and I have a whole new family now and a much better support network. We’re all very close. 
  I went through several years of having every corner I turned surrounded by failure. With no one to help me make things better, and no path to fix what is wrong, I felt very cornered and trapped. With so much brokenness everywhere that for a while, I just gave up. I had several suicide attempts as my life fell apart and by the grace of God I survived. The last one got me in some serious trouble with the law, but I survived it and then completed a probationary period only to come back hungry, stronger, and with a sense of purpose. My legal issues are cleared and wiped off my record. I have hope now where I did not have before. 

Thirdly, the combination of both substances and poor coping mechanisms made misery’s best company. I had issues with both at the same time. I was very lost, my heart was not fully committed to anything I was doing, and I was wondering around the world with a lack of direction and purpose and saw little importance in the privilege it was for me to be able to attend college. 
  It is truly awful what I have been through, and over the past year I have wanted to go back many times but kept running into issues because I either need to start over at a less prestigious university or figure out a way to finish at Mercer. I will not make the same mistakes again and put myself in a position where my heart is not fully in the program. At heart, I am a Mercerian and a Mercerian I will always be, so I need to finish what I started. 
  What is different today is just about everything. My circumstances have completely changed. I have a newfound support structure. I have stability in place of instability. I have support instead of false friends. I have a happy family instead of a miserable one, and I have even built a happy structure for myself too. Instead of me drinking my sorrows away I share those with others and help others to accomplish the same as I have. I am stable. I am strong. I can stand on my own. I have done a lot of growing up. Not only have I wallowed in my own malfeasance, but I have also embraced the joys of my success. I now know the formula for completion, and that is to stay sober, apply myself, and not let anything else get in my way. 
  I have new encouragement to obtain my degree and move on with my life. For the next stage I need to be able to finish this degree and pursue an advanced degree, and I need this tool to pay off my debt and have the happy family that I deserve. It’s very simple, but it requires hard work, and I am willing to put in the hard work to become successful in the coming chapter. 
  My plan for graduation, and my hope is that COVID has made possible what was not possible previously and, with the help of my academic advisor, be able to finish the 8 classes I need for graduation or to move forward with some other program; this time, I can hopefully do this online and maintain my full-time job of which I work regular hours. The biggest obstacle I face is the financial aid, but that sort of thing has whole departments dedicated to solving that problem. 
   In closing, I thank you for your time and attention in this matter. I know this letter has been a long read and difficult. I put my faith and hope first and foremost in God but also in you, as a decision maker, to help me make this possible. I am looking forward to your response. 
 
Sincerely, 
 -- Alexander Alvonellos
