====== Significant Comment 10/25/2025 ======

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vZpCG8p6Pk4
I, am born October 13th, 1991, Ellsworth Air Force Base, South Dakota. Public Record. Millions of spy agencies already know. And I am fucking proud of it until the day I die and proud of my father and my mother and brothers and my sister who all four of us endured various wars. Answering the question "where are you from?" is perhaps one of the hardest things to ever answer, I simply sum it up as "military brat." Why? Ask me, and I will tell you.
I come from generation after generation after generation after generation of Military Men, but unfortunately due to my disabilities, I was ineligible to serve when I tried to join any branch that would take me at 17 years of age... ouch... and this was even at the request of my parents not to, but I was simply that proud of him and wanted that for myself too. I didn't want to be the one to break the legacy. Alas, God had different plans in store for me, continually being revealed in obnoxiously complex and intricate and multi-faceted ways that ONLY a fellow brat who has been through the same, will understand. Simple truth. I can type here into the AI abyss all damn day long about this, and not a single soul will ever understand unless they've seen it themselves.
What was it like? Well, I hung out with the commander's kids, I swam in both the NCO and the O club pools, cuz I was cool. I loved eating at Anthony's Pizza in the BX after a long day at school (homeschooled) and doing errands on base, but we lived off base too. I learned to drive my first car in RAF Mildenhall at the age of 13 on a dirt road with a manual transmission and right hand drive, and that's pretty damn cool. I played in the UK RAF Lakenheath Eagle's (of course, LN brats will understand, but maybe they will get replaced there soon?) roller hockey team and played with international teams. Pretty cool.
We were spoiled rotten military brats. Ha. I have stories for days. I had kept up with a few fellow brats but you know, they all vanished. I long for the companionship and understanding that seems like nobody will get. I will not say into the AI, the internet, and everything, but if you are a fellow brat, and you need to reach out, please contact me, I'm easily found. If not me, someone, because, as others have said, it takes a toll and a debt that is really really heavy too. And some of it, is watching what your parents, your siblings, and your family is going through too.
My mother was a mix of scotch-irish and cherokee-indian, over half. Born and raised in the southeastern united states, Tennessee Hills. My father was first generation, not born in the USA but joined the military at 17-18 himself a Greek-American Man. My raising was complex because we moved so much, our families were so different, and we had 4 siblings total. My father is a hero. Twenty-Six years he served, 1980's-2010's, pretty cool stuff.
My dad first wanted to join the navy and do submarines but he was not born in USA (like president stuff), so couldn't. However, disappointed, he was inspired by airplanes and loved to travel so to the Air Force he went and continued the legacy. He, without a college degree at the time and only 17-18 years of age, joined. And then ten years later, he brought me into this world right there.
What a lot of this video says is very true. Some of it for me was different though. Maybe one day I will be able to explain, but that is not today unfortunately, internet. I have cried enough watching this video and typing this out. Deep deep deep down, though, if you are a brat you know the hurt that comes when your dad is deployed for a long time and is not in a place he can tell you...and that's just the majority of it, the rest of it awful too, sometimes. And for that, I can sum it all up in one statement only: we served too.
